# Cartography (cart) Discipline Namespace

The Cartography displine namespace describes map projections, including orbital-, lander-, and rings-related definitions and descriptions. The PDS Cartography namespace is largely based on the existing Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) Content Standard for Digital Geospatial Metadata, with modifications and extensions applied by PDS as needed for planetary mapping applications. This namespace is strongly recommended for any map projected (derived) PDS4 products whether they are an image-based (e.g. Array_2D, Array_3D_Map, etc.) or GIS vector-based (table-based with defined point, line or polygon geometries). The Cartography and Imaging Sciences Node at both the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) and Jet Propulsion Laboratories (JPL) are the stewards of this namespace.

Steward: [Trent Hare, Cartography and Imaging Sciences Node](mailto:thare@usgs.gov)

# Documentation

See this namespace's online documentation at https://pds-data-dictionaries.github.io/ldd-cart for a User Guide and Detailed Documentation on this namespace.
* Graphical views
  - UML [SVG](docs/PDS4_CART_IngestLDD.svg)
  - [PDF](docs/PDS4_CART_IngestLDD.pdf)

# Latest Release

* [PDS Cartography Namespace](https://pds.nasa.gov/datastandards/dictionaries/#cart)
* [GitHub](../../../releases/latest)
* [Change log](CHANGELOG.md)

# Using This Repository
In this repo you will find...
* **[src](src) - The managed IngestLDD file that defines this namespace.** This is where changes to the namespace itself are made.
* **[build](build) - The generated schema files for this namespace.** The .xsd and .sch files can be found here, among other LDDTool output
* [test](test) - The regression tests for this namespace.
* [logs](logs) - Logs generated by the GitHub-automated build and test processes of LDDTool and Validate
* [examples](https://github.com/pds-data-dictionaries/ldd-cart/wiki) - sample sections using this namespace
* _[.github](.github) - Internal files used to manage the automated build processes_

## Implement

See the [tutorial on updating and building an IngestLDD](https://pds-data-dictionaries.github.io/support/tutorials.html#ldd-update-and-build-tutorial) and the [LDD Update Process](https://pds-data-dictionaries.github.io/development/ldd-update.html) for more details.


## Contribute

### Propose Updates
See the [LDD Update Process](https://pds-data-dictionaries.github.io/development/ldd-update.html)


### Contribute
Have a bug or feature request? Create one in the [PDS4 Issue Repo](https://github.com/pds-data-dictionaries/PDS4-LDD-Issue-Repo/issues/new/choose).


### Support
See the [PDS Data Dictionaries Support page](https://pds-data-dictionaries.github.io/support/contribute.html) for more Support information.


## Notes
Each build is auto-generated using Github Actions, PDS4 LDDTool, and Validate Tool.

You can manually run [LDDTool](https://nasa-pds.github.io/pds4-information-model/model-lddtool/index.html) on the IngestLDD using the following command:

```
lddtool -lpsnJ MY_IngestLDD.xml
```

# Generating Namespace Documentation
This is auto-generated by Github Actions, but if you would like to generate on your laptop:

`. Install Python dependencies (preferable within a Python virtual environment)
```
pip install -r requirements
```

## Generating HTML

1. Make the docs
```
cd docs
make clean html
```

2. Preview the html in your browser
```
open build/html/index.html
```

## Generating PDF

1. Install additional dependencies:

On a Mac:
```
brew install texlive
```

On Linux:
```
apt-get install texlive-latex-recommended texlive-latex-extra texlive-fonts-recommended 
```

2. Make the PDF
```
cd docs
make latexpdf
```

3. Preview the PDF
```
# filename will vary depending upon the project name specified in conf.py
open build/latex/pdsexamplenamespace.pdf